# SUBJ

Sarah Stanley <br/>
LIS5703 Information Organization<br/>
Professor Kazmer<br/>
9 December 2018

## A Nascent Vocabulary 

The emergent vocabulary created for our CON assignments  utilizes the collaborative tagging of a folksonomy, in which "tags are 'flat', lacking a predefined taxonomic structure, and their use relies on [...] common conceptual and linguistic understanding within the community" (Goh, 75). Our class readings, discussions, and meetings helped us to form this sense of community that allowed us to create this shared vocabulary. However, our vocabulary also betrays the fact that we did not design our control system as a larger, more widely adopted standard would.

This paper lays out the ways in which our vocabulary exhibits (or fails to exhibit) some common traits of controlled vocabularies.  

### Equivalence, hierarchy, and association 

The vocabulary we created for our CON assignments had no rules for *specific entry* for our emergent vocabulary, so there was no expectation that we would "[assign] the most specifc term that is available in the controlled vocabulary" (Joudrey and Taylor, 494). As a result, our folksonomy ended up having several related terms, many of which could be modeled as hierarchical terms, in our vocabulary. 

For example, there were terms for "Linked data" (3 occurrences), "linked open data" (3), and "Semantic Web" (3). The third item is certainly related to the first two, which may be useful for someone using our vocabulary to know. Furthermore, "Linked data" is possibly being applied where "linked *open* data" would be more precise. If we were using a more formalized vocabulary. The relationships between these terms would be explicitly outlined, along with guidance about when each term should be used.

Many of the tags used are related to other tags that were used in our vocabulary, such as "digital collections" and "Digital Libraries." The abundance of related terms in our folksonomy seems to be common among both LIS practitioners and non-practitioners who use folksonomies. When testing how people tagged with a folksonomy,  Manzo et al. found that taggers mostly used terms related to the preferred terms. They studied both librarians and non-librarians tagging objects, and found that "a score of five (“related terms”) accounts for the largest segment of recorded tags, meaning that 50% of all of the tags entered were valid classifications not included in traditional metadata" (Manzo et al.).

### Initialisms and other variants 

As Joudrey and Taylor note, acronyms and initialisms can complicate the creation of a controlled vocabulary, and our emergent vocabulary demonstrates this problem perfectly. Several acronyms were used without any variation, such as "IFLA LRM." Tags like "DPLA" duplicated tags "Digital Public Library of America (DPLA)." The tags "Dublin Core" and "DCMI" also caused some possible redundancy in our tag set. It is also impossible for us to know without reading the text being tagged if "DCMI" and "Dublin Core" are merely the spelled-out and acronym versions of each other, or if they are intended to be substantively different. Does "DCMI" reference the organization and "Dublin Core" the standard? Without policies for spelling out or abbreviating, it would be difficult for a user to tell if these tags or substantively different or just conventionally distinct.

### Pre- and post-coordination 

The tags chosen for the various CON assignments were largely post-coordinated, in that the tags we chose did not combine the terms that related to each other. For example, the item tagged with "Accessibility," "International," and "Medicine Archives" could easily be talking about the international accessibility of information in medicine archives, or it could be talking about accessibility in information archives and international accessibility law. We cannot determine from the tags themselves how the vocabulary terms relate to each other within the context of the tag.

While this may seem like a failing in our emergent vocabulary, some research seems to indicate that broader post-coordinated topics can help with the retrieval of information. Kat Hagedorn et al. found that single-word, post-coordinated tags generated by topic modeling were preferred by researchers when searching on results page. However, as we saw with the international/accessibility/medical archives example, this usefulness drops off on the individual record. While studying the use of these post-coordinated tags, the researchers found that "LCSH was considered superior than topics when participants reviewed item records (3/4 of the time)" (Hagedorn et al.)

## Comparing the Nascent with the Established 

Our emergent vocabulary, while flawed, resembles many existing vocabularies that have been developed at the national and on more local scales. The  

### Coordination 

One of the challenges we faced with creating our emergent vocabulary was coordination. Our class meets only for two hours a day, and outside of the Canvas discussion board, there is not much space for discussing normal conventions and best practices for naming tags. As

"For each new subject-heading proposal, SACO specialists of the COOP Section verify that all the *SHM* guidelines are followed, that the approprate variant terms are applied, and the all-important research has been conducted." (Ferris)

However, it is possible that Zotero's autocomplete function had a hand in coordinating some of the results and smoothing out the word form across the entire set of texts. For example, eleven records used "Dublin Core" in title casing, and none used variant casing, as in the .

### Pseudo-faceting 

Our emergent vocabulary shows the beginning of description that is used by the Library of Congress Art & Architecture Thesaurus (AAT). This system includes mechanisms for categorizing or faceting the description itself. The AAT allows for the description of multiple aspects of an artistic work, such as "Agents" or "Objects" and provides lists of terms or conventions for terms in each facet.

Our vocabulary does not allow for faceting in this specific way, but we have the foundation to incorporate this sort of faceting into our vocabulary. For example, the most consistently marked terms ("Metadata Application Profile" and "Subjects") could easily be made a part of an "Major Assignment" facet, and "CON1", etc could be a part of a "Minor Assignments" facet. Additionally, we could consider the tags with our names to be a part of the "Tag Creator" facet. With our name tags marked up consistently, we can easily differentiate these from the more topical tags.

### Scope of Materials 

One benefit of working specifically with materials that could be used as citations for our MAP and SUBJ assignments. We knew from the scope of the course that the subjects we needed to create would largely be related to libraries and information organization. We knew that we were looking for some specific subcategory of "aboutness," and could infer that

## Notes 

## Works Cited 

du Preez, Madely. "Taxonomies, Folksonomies, and Ontologies: what are they and how do they support information retrieval?" *The Indexer*, Vol. 33, No. 1, 2015.

Ferris, Anna M. "Birth of a Subject Heading." *Library Resources & Technical Services*, Vol. 62, No. 1, 2018.

Goh, Dion Hoe-Lian. "Collaborative Search and Retrieval in digital libraries." *Digital Libraries and Information Access*, edited by G.G Chowdhury and Schubert Foo, Facet Publishing, 2012, 69-82.

Hagedorn, Kat, Michael Kargela, Youn Noh, and David Newman. "A New Way to Find: Testing the Use of Clustering Topics in Digital Libraries." *D-Lib Magazine*, Vol. 17, No. 10, 2011.

Joudrey, Daniel N. and Arlene G. Taylor. *The Organization of Information.* Fourth Edition, Santa Barbara, Libraries Unlimited, 2018.

Manzo, Christina, Geoff Kaufman, Sukdith Punjasthitkul, and Mary Flanagan. "'By the People, For the People': Assessing the Value of Crowdsourced, User-Generated Metadata." *Digital Humanities Quarterly*, Vol. 9, No. 1, 2015.







